Now tourist industry is one of the most dynamically developing branches of the world economy. According to the World Tourist Organisation (WTO), since 1998 tourism occupies the first place in the world goods and dervices export, which surpasses automobile industry, chemical products manufacturing, food products manufacturing and fuel manufacturing.
However despite of high tourism potential, the Russian Federation holds an insignificant place on the world tourism market. It accounts about 1 % of the world tourist flow. Analysis of the present state of domestic tourism and the level of its development is insufficient by both qualitative and quantitative characteristics.
Presently the main factors delaying development of tourism in Russia are: the image of Russia as an unfavourable country for tourism which is created by certain foreign as well as domestic mass media; undeveloped tourists infrastructure; lack of conditions favorable for investments in tourist infrastructure; lack of state non-commercial advertisement of the country`s tourist resources abroad. The main task of tourism development in the Russian Federation is formation of modern marketing strategy promotiong tourist product on both domestic and internatinal markets.
Development and promotion of tourism in Russia requires the following: information and advertisement programs on entry and domestic tourism, which includes creation of television and radio programs for Russia and foreing countries: issuing of catalogue, booklets, posters, maps and other  advertisement and information printing products: information centers network for foreing and Russian tourists in place of the biggest tourist flow concentration; introductory trips around Russia`s tourist centers for foreing journalists.
Effective tourism development will allow to icrease dramatically the flow of foreing tourists coming to Russia and foreing currency inflow into the country`s economy. It will increase the rate of employment among population and influence to the social and economic development of the country.
